release: v1.0.0-alpha.1 (#1689)
apollographql/router: CHANGELOG.md

By [@garypen](https://github.com/garypen) in https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/1660

### Fix the supported defer specification version to `20220824` ([PR #1652](https://github.com/apollographql/router/issues/1652))

Since the router will ship before the `@defer` specification is done, we add a parameter to the `Accept` and `Content-Type` headers to indicate which specification version is accepted.

The specification is fixed to [graphql/graphql-spec@01d7b98](https://github.com/graphql/graphql-spec/commit/01d7b98f04810c9a9db4c0e53d3c4d54dbf10b82)

The router will now return a response with the status code `406 Not Acceptable` if the `Accept` header does not match.

By [@Geal](https://github.com/Geal) in https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/1652

### Change default enablement and promote `experimental_defer_support` to `preview_defer_support` ([PR #1673](https://github.com/apollographql/router/issues/1673))

> Following up on a tremendous amount of work tracked in https://github.com/apollographql/router/issues/80 - which brought various stages of `@defer` support to the Router - this changes our designation of its status from "Experimental" to "Preview".  It's worth noting that the specification *just* graduated to "Stage 2 (Draft)" mode in the GraphQL Working Group, so changes may still be expected and there are two stages ahead.  To help things progress:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Following up on a tremendous amount of work tracked in https://github.com/apollographql/router/issues/80 - which brought various stages of `@defer` support to the Router - this changes our designation of its status from "Experimental" to "Preview".  It's worth noting that the `@defer` specification has *just* graduated to "Stage 2 (Draft)" mode in the GraphQL Working Group, so changes may still be expected and there are two stages ahead.  To help things progress:
```

- We've lifted the previous requirement that users opt into defer support by setting `experimental_defer_support: true` in the `server` section of their configuration.  It is now on by default.
- The option is now called `preview_defer_support` and it can be set to `false` to _specifically_ opt out of it existing at all.  This might be desired if you would prefer that it not even show up in introspection or be possible to use even if a client requests it.
- Using `@defer` support _requires_ clients set the appropriate HTTP `accept` header to use it.  This puts the burden of understanding the risks of an early-preview on the clients who will need to consume the Router's responses. This is particularly important for clients who have long-lived support requirements (like native mobile apps).

  To see which headers are required, see https://github.com/apollographql/router/issues/1648.

By [@abernix](https://github.com/abernix) in https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/1685

## 🚀 Features

### Return an error when nullifying a non-null field ([Issue #1304](https://github.com/apollographql/router/issues/1304))

> Nullability rules can end up removing large parts of the response without indicating why. This will provide context,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Nullability rules may remove large parts of the response without indicating why. This will provide context,
```

> showing which part of the response triggered nullability rules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

By [@Geal](https://github.com/Geal) in https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/1537

### router now provides TraceId ([PR #1663](https://github.com/apollographql/router/issues/1536))

If you need a reliable way to link together the various stages of pipeline processing, you can now use

```rust

> apollo_router::tracer::TraceId

Reviewer: ```suggestion
apollo_router::tracer::TraceId::new()
```

```

By [@garypen](https://github.com/garypen) in https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/1663

## 🐛 Fixes

### Docker images: Use absolute path for `ENTRYPOINT` ([PR #1684](https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/1684))

This restores the absolute path in `ENTRYPOINT` in our `Dockerfile`s (and published images) to allow users to change their working directory without consequence (and without needing to change it back to `/dist` or override the `entrypoint`).

By [@110y](https://github.com/110y) in https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/1684

### Update our helm documentation to illustrate how to use our registry ([#1643](https://github.com/apollographql/router/issues/1643))

> The helm chart never used to have a registry, so our docs were really just placeholders. I've updated them to reflect the fact that we now store the chart in our OCI registry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Updated documentation for helm charts to point to Apollo OCI registry.
```

By [@garypen](https://github.com/garypen) in https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/1649

### Update router-bridge to `query-planner` v2.1.1 ([PR #1650](https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/1650) [PR #1672](https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/1672))

The 2.1.0 release of the query planner comes with fixes to fragment interpretation and reduced memory usage.
The 2.1.1 release of the query planner fixes an issue with the `@defer` directive's `if` argument being ignored.

By [@Geal](https://github.com/Geal) in https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/1650 and https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/1672

### Do not nullify the entire query if the root operation is not present ([PR #1674](https://github.com/apollographql/router/issues/1674))

> If a root field was not returned by the subgraph (e.g., when there's an error) we should not nullify the entire data object. Instead, it's the root field that should be null (unless it is non nullable).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a root field was not returned by the subgraph (e.g., when there's an error) the entire data object should not be nullified. Instead, the root field that should be null (unless it is non nullable).
```

By [@Geal](https://github.com/Geal) in https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/1674

### Propagate graphql response regardless of the subgraph HTTP status code. ([#1664](https://github.com/apollographql/router/issues/1664))

> Subgraph service calls used to return an error when the received HTTP status code isn't 200.  There's, however, no mention in the GraphQL specification that leads us to assume any intent behind the HTTP status code returned by a GraphQL server since the GraphQL specification is transport agnostic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```suggestion
Subgraph service calls no longer return an error when the received HTTP status code isn't 200.  The GraphQL specification does not specify HTTP status code behavior since the GraphQL specification is transport agnostic.
```
```

This commit removes our HTTP status code check in the `subgraph_service`.

By [@o0Ignition0o](https://github.com/o0Ignition0o) in https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/1664

## 🛠 Maintenance

### Remove cache layer ([PR #1647](https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/1647))

> We removed `ServiceBuilderExt::cache` in v0.16.0. That was the only consumer of the cache layer. This completes the removal by deleting the cache layer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`ServiceBuilderExt::cache` was removed in v0.16.0. The unused `CacheLayer` has now also been removed.
```
